[Music]
Hi friends, how are you today? In today's
video, we will see how to process the health
insurance OPD claim in ICI Lombard, Outpatient
Department claim process
online on our mobile. In
this video, we will see that this
OPD claim is done through the ICI Lombard
IL Take Care application. We can
download it from the Play Store and
complete this process through that application. It
is not on the web portal. Therefore, this procedure must be done through the app.
Download the ICI Lombard IL Take Care application app and
sign up by giving your policy details.
After signing up, your policies will be
displayed. Who is in the policies and
what are their details. You will see there.
Under Policies, Claims,
Home, By Policy Network,
click on the option called Claims. If you
click on the option called Claims,
your health policy will be displayed.
If there is one, one, two.  If so,
two will appear, select one of them. If you
select it, it will
appear as Claims File Claim Track Your Claim Request My History. Did you see that,
click on File Claim. If you click on File Claim, you will see
Outpatient
Department Pre and Post
Hospitalization Hospitalization
Reimbursement Outpatient Department
One PD. Now what we are doing is a PD
claim, so we have to
select the Outpatient Department option. If you
select it, here is our policy number,
policy start date, end date, patient name, as
many people as there are in the family. If you
click next to the patient name, you will
see who we have. If you
click here in the patient name, if there are three, if there are four, the
people related to that policy will appear. Select that name and the
card number will
be automatically displayed. Card number,
mobile number, all these will be there. Just
on our first page, patient name.  You only need to
select one and give the address.
Type the address and
copy the address you have given here. Copy it and
click on proceed. If you
click on proceed, it will
show you above on the second page. Did you see one, two, three, four, four
dots? The
first page came and now we have filled it. Do you see that you only need to
select the patient name and
type one address?
After clicking on proceed, we
went to the second page. On the second page, we came to the
hospital, clinic or doctor
details. These details have to be given.
Wherever you took the treatment, the
details related to that treatment have to be
given here. Select the state. Select the state.
Andhra Pradesh city. If there is a city
near you, enter the name of the city nearest to that city.
Hospital name.
Type the hospital name. Also, select the date of concern
treatment. On which day
did you take the treatment or did you take the Covid vaccine on that day.
What is the claim amount?  If you want to claim the amount, enter the total
amount, including the laboratory test bills, medical bills, and doctor consultation charges, and
click on Proceed. If you click on Proceed, the
bank details
will be displayed. These bank details mean that
now whoever proposed this policy in the family will be found
here in the policy starting. If the name of the
proposer is the name of the proposer, then you
only have to give their bank account details. The name of the
proposer is the same as for
bank accounts. The name of the
account number is again verified. Then the account number should be verified.
Then the IFSC code, bank name,
bank branch name, PAN
card number, enter all these and
click on Proceed. After clicking on Proceed,
we will now come to the final step.
Now we have to
upload the documents. The documents
mean that now we will
take the treatment. Now suppose for
example  We have taken treatment for fever,
it can be at home,
or we can go to the hospital and show it,
come back home and take rest at home.
Now what
we need to do is a PD
claim form. We have to download a PD claim form from the website.
I have already given the link of that website
in the description. From there,
you can download a PD claim form.
We have to fill it.
We have to take a printout, fill it,
sign it and submit it.
Here, what we need to submit is a PD
claim form, doctor's prescription.
Now, if we take any test, the
reports related to that test as well as the
pharmacy bill. Here, on page
number two, we have given the account details.
Along with those account details, we have to
upload the canceled check related to that account.
Canceled check means nothing.
Just do not sign on our check, if
not horizontally, then vertically.  You have to
write "Cancelled" and take a photo and
upload it. Now,
as shown on the screen, this is the
canceled check.
This is the prescription. I am
showing you all this as a sample. The pharmacy bill
and the test reports are a little
clearer. The hospital name, the laboratory name,
and the day it was taken.
Upload those details clearly.
Now, let's see how to fill a PD claim form.
It will
be two pages. Two pages, one page, and then this is an
empty form. This is the
form I filled here. Just
where did you get the treatment? Which
bank account details should be filled?
Just a claim form.
We have to submit this. This is a sample. I have
filled this form here. Here is the name
of the policy holder.
You already know that as I showed you in the policy, the name of the
proposal name is at the
beginning. If there is a name
there, the proposal name is here.  You have to write the
policy number in the second step, the policy
number, the card number, the card UH ID,
here we have the ICC number already, we will be
given the cards here, for example
in PDF, now we want to
submit the climb in the name of the father,
so here we have to give the father's card number, here I have
entered the father's card number, here I am the proposer of
the PAN number, here I am the proposer,
so my PAN number has to be entered here,
here I have asked to tick the policy, it
says individual policy, that is the group policy, if it is individual, if it is
individual, then
tick under group policy, after ticking, here
we do not know what is the employee ID, if you do not
know any information in this, you can
leave them, there will be no problem with them,
now here in the third step, the
details of the insured person in
respect of whom the claim is made,
here you have to add the patient details,
add the father's name  Here you have to
fill all these for the relationship formality.
Here if it is father, if it is brother, if it is son,
if it is
completed age, present completed age
in years, enter the age and
select gender and occupation service, if
not, enter the occupation here and enter the
current address. Now you can give the address that you have
already mentioned in the policy,
otherwise if you are at a different address, you can give
that address, give your
mobile number, email ID. Here
please provide A B H A number.
Did you see that A B H A number is given,
and if you have an idea, give the number if available,
otherwise leave it. This A B H A
number is Ayushman Bharat Health
Account Number. This is for you. If you have this number, give it.
In case, if not, you can
leave it. What is the problem now?
Next step Nature of disease
What is the disease Favor Diabetes check If the
disease is what, what is the reason for which you went to the hospital, mention the date on which
you showed it to the doctor, the
name of the doctor and the contact details. Since the
contact details of the doctor are not usually given to us, it is
enough to mention the name
of the doctor. In case you have the contact number of the doctor,
give it. Otherwise, write the name and leave it.
Consulting doctor fees Pharmacy medical
charges Investigation charges Others
Here are the bills. Did you
see that I showed you the bills before that, I showed you
pharmacy bill consultation charges test
reports something like this. Did you see that
these have bill numbers? Those bill
numbers should be written here. Also, if the date is
what day we took the dates, did we
attach the bills related to them
or if yes, yes, if no, select no.
For example, I have a
doctor's  I
wrote ₹500 for consulting fee and
₹1720 for medical charges. Investigation charges are nothing but
our test report charges. They
already give me a bill. We should
definitely take the bill. Take the bill, write the
bill number, bill date here and write the bill
amount. For example, I added ₹2990. The
total is
₹5210. Did you mention bill receipts in Part B?
Tick it. Read all this and tick it.
Where are you writing the declaration from? On
which day, the signature of the
policy holder, whoever is the proposer, should be done.
We have to do the signature in two places. In
both places, whoever is the proposer should also
sign. That is why
wherever I am the proposer everywhere, for example,
my name is Bhanu Teja,
wherever I have written my name as the proposer, that is the
proposer here.  The last signature was done on the mix page. The
second page and the last
also have my signature.
Whoever is the proposer, their signature is
required. Whoever has taken the treatment,
their signature is not required. Sign and
write the date and place. Now
go to Part C. Next page, patient name
here, patient details should be given. Please provide a self-
attached
copy of valid identity proof of the
proposal or policy holder. If
not, Aadhaar card, PAN card, driving
license, voter ID, any valid
identity proof should be signed and uploaded. They
told me to upload the canceled check. If you
upload both of these, tick them. I ticked both.
After ticking, here again the same bank
account details. Whoever
is the proposer, the bank account details of that proposer should be
added here.
Here, the account holder's signature in the last.  I
said that two signatures are required here, right? Both signatures are
required only for the proposal of the policy.
So, I am the proposer of the policy,
so I have made two signatures myself. In this
way, this OPD form has to be filled. If
you have any doubts about this OPD form, please
comment. I
will try to reply to you. In case
you do not know anything about it, leave it. There is no
problem with them either. When I
submitted it, I did not know the
BHA number or these other details. I
filled only the details that I know. They also
approved it and the amount was deposited in the account.
Another thing is that this entire form has to be
filled in capital letters.
So, the entire form has to be
filled in capital letters and submitted to them.
Now, let's go back to the
application.
I have already filled all these things in the application.
Here, on the fourth page,
after going to Upload Documents,
select  Document upload, what
document file is it, payment
receipts, final hospital bills,
pharmacy or medical bills, claim form,
cancel check, all these were asked,
where is self-attached copy of, I did not ask, I
ticked there, but I did not ask here,
I did not
submit either, I hope not required,
so take the payment tips here, whatever they are,
according to these, now we
have selected the first cancel check, here we add a photo,
now we can upload it by taking a photo,
otherwise if it is already in the
gallery, we can also select it from the gallery, we can do it in
both ways,
what I did is that
I already have two or three claims,
so I have prepared everything in advance and
scanned it. For
suppose, now they want to make four claims, they want to make four claims for four
people in the family, they want to make four
claims for four people, they have to
fill four OPD forms separately for four people, but the cancel check is the
same cancel check.  You can submit only four, so there will be no
problem. If you
give the same bank account, upload the same
canceled check for all four claims.
In the same form,
select the OPD form. Let's
select this OPD form. The final
hospital bills will contain the doctor's
prescription as well as our test
reports. If you
combine the two test reports into one PDF and
submit, there will be no problem.
I did the same. I submitted the doctor
's consultation charges as well as the laboratory charges. I submitted these
three together in the pharmacy or medical bills. In the
final hospital
bills, I submitted the doctor's prescription
as well as the two test reports.
After submitting, click on the I
declare below that I will not submit my claim of this to
any other insurance and
submit.
After clicking on submit, the OTP will come.
Enter the OTP for our registered mobile number and it
says Digital Signature Verified Successfully. Please
confirm the build details.
Let's check if all these are correct. Verify all the details we have given so far. It says Digitally Verified Successfully. If there are any mistakes, we can
go back and check.
There is a pencil mark here. If you
click on this pencil symbol,
we can edit.
Click here and check if all these are correct.
Tick here again and
submit the final. If you submit the final,
you will get this success message: Your
claim intimation request has been submitted
with reference number.
Take a screenshot of this.
Even if you don't take it, it will already be in the app. There is no
problem. Click on OK here. If you
click on OK, you will go back again.
The application has been submitted. So, claim.
After submission,
this amount will be credited to our account in one week. If
we want to check where this claim is, if we
click on claims, it will appear as Track Your Claim. Did you
see that when
I click on a claim, two
came up, it said Under Process and
after all this is approved, it turns green.
I
will also show you those screenshots. Now I have uploaded a total of three
bills, right? One of them got a
request back.
Why did it get a request back? I
submitted medical bills, doctor's prescription in it but did not
submit the test report. They
asked me to upload supporting documents. If I go to Track Your Claim,
one claim has been approved
but another claim is queried. If I
click on this queried, I get two responses to the query.  It
said "Respond Queried" and it
was updated every time due to an app glitch. No matter what I did, it said "Respond
to Query". I
clicked on "Respond to Query" and
selected "Others" in those documents. Now I
uploaded those test reports and added the
doctor's prescription
and how much it cost in the remarks.
After that, I submitted it. The
query response for claim number has been submitted
successfully. I
submitted it. Now if you
go to Track Your Claim,
after two days, three days, if you check the status,
you will see something like this. It goes
from under process to
approved. After approval, the amount is credited
to the account. After that, it says "Approved
and Paid". In this way,
all the requests I have made have been
approved and paid. After this process,
we can complete this process through the app.  You can also check it,
otherwise you
can also check it through the chart bot. On WhatsApp, there is a chart bot of
IIC Lombard from our registered mobile number.
We can message the chat bot and
get the details. If we just message it as "Hi", it will
ask how can I help you. It will ask "Help with claims" and it will
ask what policy is it, individual policy or health policy.
From the options given here, we have to select it. It
said "Individual Group Corporate" and
selected it accordingly and gave the claim status.
After giving the claim status,
in the options, it said "Is this policy or not?" It said "This
policy" and confirmed it. Type
zero to search using climb number
or mobile number or something. If
not with climb number,
we can check with mobile number. Here, a number
came up. I clicked on the number one. When I clicked, it came up
here. Did you see the
claim number? Claim.  Registered
Date of Hospitalization Zero is selected, if you select
Zero, then
enter our claim number here and enter the date
of birth in the date month year format. If you
enter the date of birth in the date month year format, it will
send you a direct screenshot. Claim received.
Claim data entry is complete. It is
in document validation.
Now after document validation,
after medical review, the claim is settled. It is
shown as under process with this claim number. Your claim is under
technical assignment. You should update it. You
can update the areas. They
gave you a date.
After checking like that, finally,
after everything is complete, claims data entry
document validation is also green
color, medical review is also green color, approved is also green color, approved is
also
After it is done, you will receive an email.
After submitting the claim to us on WhatsApp, the
settlement letter will be sent to us on WhatsApp as well as by
email. This is
how ICI Lombard General Insurance
's PD claim can actually be done
online.
Not online, but offline.
Fill all these documents correctly and
give them to the Hyderabad address through courier. If you use
Hyderabad address courier, they will
check everything and give it to us manually. You can
also do this.
If you like this video,
I request you to like, share and subscribe.
Thank you all
[Music]